(upbeat music)
- Hey everyone, welcome to this week's episode of Fish.
Before we get going, I just want to let you know
a couple of things.
Firstly, the episode you're about to hear
is the last ever episode to be recorded
at the QI offices in Covent Garden
as we pack up shop and move on to our new offices
in Hoburn.
So we thought, you know, if we're gonna go out,
we should go out strong.
So we reached out to nerd royalty
and fortunately she said, yes, it's Hannah Fry.
My goodness, we are such huge fans of her at the QI office.
I think every elf has probably read her books.
Hello World, if you've not read that by the way,
is an incredible book.
I'm sure you've all seen her TV series
which was out November of last year on BBC Two
called The Secret Genius of Modern Life,
was absolutely phenomenal.
She makes incredible TV, she writes incredible books
and she is such a good guest on this week's episode.
You have to by the way, check out her latest show.
You can find it on bloomberg.com
and it's called The Future with Hannah Fry.
It is a look into the world of scientists and inventors
who are changing the way the world is gonna be
over the next century.
These are people who are looking into seeing
if we can live a life beyond 150 years old
who are working out whether or not computers
will be able to read our emotions
and trying to find out if they can make a planet
that will be utterly transformed
by unlimited clean energy.
So do check that out, it's on bloomberg.com
or you can find the entire series on YouTube as well.
And otherwise, next time you happen to be
in Covent Garden, do take a walk down Maiden Lane
and if you look above the barbershop
that's called Ruffians, you'll see a window there.
That's where we were for nine years.
James Andy, Anna and I just sat there dorking out
and we're gonna miss the place
but we're looking forward to the next chapter
and that will be next week's episode.
But for now, let's give a good old goodbye
with Hannah Frye to the QI offices in Covent Garden
on with the show.
(upbeat music)
- Hello and welcome to another episode
of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast
coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden.
My name is Dan Schreiber.
I'm sitting here with James Harkin,
Andrew Hunter Murray and Hannah Frye.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days
and in a particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one and that is Hannah.
- Oh, me, my turn.
Okay, here's my facts.
The Malyard reaction, so the thing that makes your bread
turn brown when you toast it is actually the same thing
that makes fake tan work.
Interesting.
- Okay.
- I mean, do you want more?
Do you want more?
- Yeah, so you're being--
- You're underimpressed.
- You are being toasted.
No, it's just so weird.
I just, I try to make the connection between
you've been toasted effectively.
- You would think like if you had a normal suntan,
you know, like you'll lay in the sun,
you would think that's being toasted.
- That's toasted, exactly.
But this is a spray on or this is a cream, right?
So there's no toasty.
- What if you put fake tan on bread?
That's what I wanted to know.
Good question.
- This is a great question.
Someone needs to experiment.
- Yeah, perfect toast every time.
- Okay, so the best thing about this,
my favorite thing about this is this was discovered
completely by accident.
So there was a researcher called Ava Wittgenstein
and she was looking into, there's some children
who were having problems, their bodies were having problems
in breaking down glucose.
So there's a sort of simplified sugar
that you find in the body,
which is called dihydroxyacetone, easy for me to say.
And she was seeing if you could feed them this sugar
whether their bodies could break down
that sort of simplified sugar.
And every now and then, some of these kids
would accidentally dribble a little bit of medicine
down their chin and when they did,
they would have a perfectly orange stain.
- Wow, so funny, yeah.
- And then she was like, what's going on here?
And what she realized is that you have
these amino acids in the skin
and when that reacts with the DHA, the dihydroxyacetone,
it creates that sort of reaction
that is the same thing that ends up
turning your skin brown in the sun,
that is the melanin in your skin.
Anyway, this idea was picked up by Copitone
and then released into Faketown.
And it's still the same thing, still the same stuff,
the DHA, which is, I think.
But they've just, they've become much better
at making it less smelly and less orange.
- So did Ava Wittgenstein, did she see this little bit
of orange-ness and think, what if that was my whole face?
Or she's more of a scientist
than someone else picked up on the idea?
- She's more of the scientist.
I mean, look, who doesn't want to have
an entirely orange face?
(laughing)
I'm sure she had ambition.
- But here's the question that I've got.
I spent ages, hours, trying to find anything
about Ava Wittgenstein.
There is nothing that I could find.
- Were you trying to find out
if she was related to Ludwig?
- No, I don't know, no, 'cause I did.
Right, and did you find anything?
No, exactly, there's nothing about,
so she does this in the '50s
and then she kind of disappears.
And I asked a friend who knows how to go
into sort of American records
just to see if he could find her.
And he searched the whole records.
All he could find was an Ava Wittgenstein
who died age 97 in North Carolina.
We don't know if it's her,
but she showed up as being on a government watch list.
- Oh!
- So it's kind of a cool idea that maybe Ava became, yeah.
- Hey, maybe she became a spy
and could like change her disguise for going orange
and then back to white.
- That's the original mission impossible, isn't it?
- She runs into a tanning booth and comes out.
- Half an hour later, completely unrecognizable.
- What a disguise, yeah.
So have any of you guys ever been faked-hanned?
- No. - At all?
- No. - I'm nervous.
- Almost non-stop.
(laughing)
I'm not joking.
Do you, like, my skin is, okay,
it's important for anybody who doesn't know what I look like.
I am the most ginger person that a ginger person can be.
Right, like, I am fully ginger,
which means that my skin is not just white,
it's like translucent with a hint of blue.
And so, I put on faked-hanned
just to make my skin look like pasty skin.
- Wow.
Do you have it on right now?
- I don't, actually.
But I have got bronzer on, can you not tell?
- Well, you just, your skin looks fine, it looks normal.
- Interesting though, that's, okay,
but you can be kind of under pale.
Like, you're not even pale.
- No, I aspire to be pale.
- So have you tried that,
'cause I know there are loads of different methods
that you can do, there are the beds on there
and then there are the booths.
- Oh, no, so beds are not faked-hanned.
So the beds, you go in, that's a real tan.
- That's very, it's looked down on.
- Oh, okay, it's not very good for you, yeah.
- It's a little bit skin-cancery.
- Right, so I didn't realize that these,
the spray that you can put on, is also a risk.
- Is it?
- Because, well, no, I mean, not, sorry.
Okay, just for any big tanners listening
or sort of like legal teams, whatever.
Point is that I, what a backtrack.
- Big tan might be coming to get you.
- It's actually good for you.
It's actually, no, it makes you look like
you are protected from the sun, but you're not.
- I see.
- It hasn't had the actual effect.
It's reacted, it's produced these pigments,
these melanoidins in your skin,
but you are then totally unprotected from sun.
- So some people would think you,
and I don't think this is even proper,
but some people think you get a little bit of a tan
and that will protect you from other, you know, stronger.
- From the sun, yeah, yeah, yeah, which it doesn't.
- This definitely doesn't, this is just, yeah.
- And doesn't it, this is a bit sciency for me,
but doesn't it in, sorry, doesn't it actually kind of
make you more susceptible to having the sun's harm you?
- Don't know, I haven't got any research on that.
- I mean, I think no, I think no.
- Okay, there was a study that was done in 2007,
which showed, and this was by Katinka Jung.
I don't know if there's any relation to Carl.
(laughing)
I don't know if it consigned the situation, yeah.
This was in Berlin, which showed that 24 hours after
having the tan are on, ultraviolet,
you become more susceptible to it in a 24 hour period.
- According to this study in 2002 or so.
- Interesting, look, all I know is I never leave
the Blumen House without fact 50 on.
I was once, oh, oh, oh, oh, God, yeah.
So I was once in Cuba, don't like to brag.
I was wearing fact 50 and sat in the shade all day,
and I was burnt so badly from the reflection of the sun
on the sand, but I got blisters, right?
That's the sort of situation.
You people without ginger hair, you don't know,
you don't know that how we suffer.
- I do have transparent skin as well,
actually, I like Irish skin, even though I have dark hair.
Like, when I was in a similar part of the world,
I put sun cream on, back to 50, every 20 minutes,
and one of the times I didn't put it on properly,
and I blistered in the shape of a handprint on my chest.
- Oh, God. - Yeah.
- I went to a pig farm in Scotland recently.
(laughing)
- Guys, all these show bizangos that we've got coming.
- Again, again, don't like to brag.
(laughing)
- What I hope you're gonna say is you realize
that pigs shelter from the sun by rubbing themselves in mud,
and you did the same?
(laughing)
- I mean, close, close.
It's because you said Irish skin,
and when I was going around this pig farm,
I realized just, I mean, genuinely,
these pigs have identical skin to me.
(laughing)
Identical skin.
And I was like, why do all these pigs have Irish skin?
And as you say, it makes them really susceptible to sunburn.
So that's why they have to keep them in sheds.
But actually, the reason for having Irish skin
as a bit grim is because when you are breeding them for meat,
you can see if there's bad meat much easier
through see-through skin.
- No. - Wow.
- What? - Is that true?
- That is super fussing.
- So look, you and me, if we ever get hung up for meat.
- Yeah. - Wow.
- Do you both have any advantage to having pale skin?
Can anyone see something?
- We are vitamin D superheroes.
- Okay, right.
- Like, that's genuinely a superpower of pale skin people.
- What does that mean?
- We make it. - Like, we synthesize it
more easily. - Yeah.
- So great. - Not enough that you can come in
and, you know-- - Extract it for me.
- Extract it for me. - No, no, no.
- Can't make a vitamin D farm out of us.
- We haven't tried yet, though.
- I read an article that said,
"The Maillard reaction is by far
"the most widely-practiced chemical reaction in the world."
- Hmm, that's so cool.
- Well, hang on, what about breathing?
- Breathing us, that counts as a chemical reaction, yeah.
Well, this was at the 100-year anniversary
of the Maillard reaction. - Right.
- Which is a huge thing. - They got skin in the game.
- Yeah, exactly.
And it was a chemist who said it.
Nobel Prize winner, Jean-Marie Lane, who said it.
But there was a huge conference.
It was like 100 years since it got discovered.
And there's a group, the Maillard reaction group.
- The Maillard reaction society have conferences
just about the Maillard reaction.
Yeah, as you say, James, they were established in 2005
and it's just food-browning scientists meeting up and--
- Sounds great.
- I think a while of the time, I bet.
But actually, I think James's case
said it's the most practiced chemical reaction on the planet.
- Well, this was Jean-Marie Lane who said this.
- I'm supporting it, James, because not only
is everyone who's ever made a slice of toast engaged in it,
but also the Maillard reaction is happening
in our bodies all the time.
And so when you toast something,
it happens at a very high temperature.
But generally, it's a reaction between amino acids,
which are the building blocks of proteins,
we've all made lots of proteins, and sugars.
So that is constantly happening
in the human body anyway, but at a very slow rate,
much, much more slowly than toasting
or the faked anything.
- Are you saying I'm orange on the inside, too?
- I'm afraid so.
(laughing)
And it's bad for you, though, 'cause when you make toast,
the Maillard reaction produces about 1,000 new molecules,
you know, it's really complicated.
- One of the chemicals it makes is acrylamide.
And acrylamide is carcinogenic.
You know, if you have just a slice of toast every day,
it's not nearly enough to be a problem.
But they found that the Maillard process
that they use in highly processed foods,
so if you're making some really highly processed food
and you want it to last for ages,
one way to do it is to heat it up really, really quickly
at a massive, massive temperature.
And that kind of Maillard reaction
gives this acrylamide.
- Yeah.
- You know, talk about processed foods, though.
So, okay, if you're like home cooking
and you're browning off the chicken
and then browning off this thing
to try and get loads of flavor,
something I've discovered recently,
don't bother doing any of that, right?
You can get MSG from the internet, right?
Buy it, right?
Little sprinkle of MSG, it makes everything taste amazing.
And because I am a scientific in nature, right?
I've A/B tested this stuff with guests
coming around my house.
- Oh, right.
- Sorry, what's A/B testing?
- It's where you basically have one bowl with,
one bowl without, and see which one goes down quicker.
- Oh. - That's interesting.
- Yeah. - Oh, wow.
- Did they know they were in an experiment
when they came around?
- They did not tell me to come to my house.
- I would say it's an assumption.
If you ever go and visit Hannah,
it's like you're probably in an experiment.
- You sign this release form at the door,
and it's not really explained,
but it's, what was in the bowls?
Do you mind me asking?
- I made a chicken curry.
Look, don't get me wrong,
my chicken curry is absolutely delicious.
(all laughing)
Both bowls were finished eventually.
- But the one with the Kraken.
- The one with the Kraken was more enjoyed, yeah.
- Well, I mean, MSG's my, I grew up in Hong Kong,
that's my life, MSG.
I'm very excited about that.
- Do you have buckets of it that you like spoon from?
- I do get pot noodle and I collect
just the sachets so that I can use it on other things.
- Are those sachets of MSG that come with pot noodles?
- You know, MSG is inside the actual powder
that you get of the actually--
- I didn't know that.
- I can't remember when I last had a pot noodle,
but it's been a while.
- Yeah.
- Some of us like, move faster than others.
(all laughing)
- This is my version of, I was in Cuba recently,
it's the start of my pot noodle in the last few years.
(all laughing)
- Can I tell you something about airline food,
specifically relating to--
- Yeah.
- You can't do the Maillard reaction on a plane.
- Okay. - That's interesting.
- Most planes these days don't have stoves, right?
- Well, you need an open flame, also.
- Oh, hang on.
- An open flame. - Sure, sure.
- So, how do they heat the food, the microwave it?
- Yeah, okay.
- What's the maximum temperature
microwaveable food gets up to?
It's 100 degrees because it's heating the water molecules,
which get to 100, blah, blah, blah.
So, you can't, that's part of the reason
why plane food tastes bad.
I know it affects your taste buds big down.
- If I brought a Bunsen burner
onto a plane, it would be possible.
- Yeah, unfortunately,
it's actually on that little card at check-in.
They do say, "Have you brought a Bunsen burner
"for your toast?"
There's a picture of a guy with a medieval toasting fork
as well. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Really strict.
- But, no, if you put it on those little plastic bags,
you can get that through.
- Oh, yeah, sure.
(all laughing)
- Yeah, but lots of food is pre-Maillard-ed
before it's loaded onto the plane.
- And then microwaved.
- And then it's microwaved,
and then you get a bit of the flavor still, but yeah.
- The Maillard reaction works on poo.
And that's why we have,
that's why we have coprolites.
- Oh. - Yeah.
- What a coprolite.
- So, a coprolite is a fossilized poo.
- Right.
- Our listeners will know that.
(all laughing)
- Of course they will, don't call us.
- But basically, let's say you have a dinosaur,
they do a poo.
The Maillard reaction works on the surface of the poo.
That's what crusts it over.
And then eventually,
that's what helps it become a coprolite.
- Wow, cool.
- So if I take my dog out for a walk,
spray the result with fake tan.
- Yeah.
Sprinkle a little MSG on it.
(all laughing)
- Come back millions of years later, there's a chance.
- Leave a sign near it, do not touch.
Experiment in progress.
One of Hamlet's experiments.
- Yeah.
- Oh, fuck it.
- Let's leave it alone, all right?
Don't you said Hong Kong?
'Cause we were talking about MSG.
- Oh, yeah, yeah.
- Have you heard of Wok Hei?
Is this familiar?
- Wok Hei. - Wok Hei, yeah.
It's the breath of the wok, right?
- Oh, it's the quality that if you're cooking in China
and particularly in Hong Kong,
it's the perfect seared taste of the rice
that's been cooked in a wok.
And it's because the rice gets tossed really fast,
loads of times, a few times a second.
It uses the mild reaction.
And if you get the trajectory of the rice right
and it's cooking at the right temperature,
it's absolutely delicious, apparently.
And there's a restaurant called The Chairman in Hong Kong,
which is one of the top restaurants in Hong Kong.
And chefs there have to spend a year practicing
the tossing of the rice in the pan.
They're only allowed to cook for other chefs.
They're not allowed to cook stir-fry for customers.
They're not allowed to cook a stir-fry for a year
so they can get the tossing right.
- That's amazing.
- I have heard about washing woks being a bad thing, right?
Like you're supposed to...
- I bet.
- You're not supposed to wash your teapot kind of thing
that's well, right?
Yeah, that's just lazy people, isn't it?
- Oh, really, yeah.
(laughing)
- Yeah, I seasoned a pan recently.
What does that mean?
- It's where you get a new...
- Fried on your face.
- I don't know.
- It was quite the thing.
- Well, it really was, it was kind of,
yeah, I'm living that Fraser life now.
I really am.
- That's what noddles are for you.
(laughing)
- You toss your pot noodle for a year before you eat it.
- It's where you get a new cast iron pan,
no nonstick stuff, just pure, you know,
lovely cast iron, whatever.
And then you put this tiny layer of oil in
and you cook that very slowly.
And then it kind of bonds with the pan.
- Right.
- And then you do that a few times,
again and again and again and do it all over the pan.
You're kind of lathering the pan
and then making a tiny thin layer.
And it makes it really good at cooking,
I don't know, more stuff.
- Andy's usually very private.
That's his personal, the thing is we've
(indistinct)
- I feel like I've learned a lot of it.
(laughing)
- Can we cut that bit out?
Sorry, I can't give you too much away.
I've got a bit, I'm exposed.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for fact number two.
And that is Andy.
- My fact is that Japan's just found 7,000 islands
that it didn't know it had.
Japan's doubled basically in one specific respect.
(laughing)
- Not in size, just in numbers.
- No, it's still exactly the same size.
- Wait, how many did it have before?
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
It had 6,800 before.
- Oh, why is it still double?
- It's more than double.
- Yeah, yeah.
- That's a good day, isn't it?
- It's a great day.
- 'Cause it would be great if one of them was like,
Honshu or whatever, the islands.
(laughing)
But they're all small, right?
They're all super small.
- Unfortunately.
- I feel like we need more detail.
Where were they?
- They were all around the main ones, you know,
and offshore mostly.
- Did they find them all in one day, in one go?
- Well, they've been doing some digital mapping.
Japan since 1985 has had the same set of maps,
which I think are based on older maps,
whereas now you can survey much more accurately.
And so there are now 14,000 Japanese islands.
- Are any of them in like the South China Sea
and claimed by other people, do we think?
I don't know how many are totally undisputed.
(laughing)
- Because, you know, the Kuril Islands,
which is in the North of Japan,
which is claimed also by Russia.
- Yes.
- That is a dispute that's still been going
since World War II,
and which means that technically World War II
hasn't finished, because Japan and the Soviet Union
haven't agreed on who owns these islands,
and it was part of World War II.
- That's seriously not our...
- No, like the last time they talked about it was like,
I don't know, 10 years ago, something like that.
They didn't agree with it then,
and I can't see them agreeing with it now.
- That's amazing, what amazing tourist attraction
that you can go there and you're in World War II.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And so one of the other things to say is that Japan's
major land masses, like the four or five islands,
I think predominantly four are 90% of the land mass.
So that's, we're talking about the final 3% here
that make up the 14,000 extra islands that they have, yeah.
- Are any of them big enough to put a house on?
- Yeah. - Yeah, I'm sure, yeah.
- You might not want to put a house on them
just in case of sea levels.
- Yeah, I mean, if you're a short-term list about it.
- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
If you're a dodgy property developer,
this is a boom for you, this is great.
- But it also depends on what you call an island, right?
What's the difference between a rock and an island size?
But where does one end and the other one start, right?
And in Scotland, they had a traditional thing
which was if you could keep a sheep on it, it's an island.
And if you can't keep a sheep on it, it's a rock.
- But when you say keep a sheep, you mean can the sheep,
is there enough grass for the sheep to support itself?
- Can it survive for, yeah, a few years?
- I mean, because presumably you can keep a sheep
on visit in any rock, it just depends on the level of cruelty
you're willing to. - Just stick on strong arms.
- It's spiky, you know?
But yeah, so like what I'm saying, I guess,
is like a lot of these islands will be super small
and whether they're officially rocks or islands,
we don't have a way of deciding.
That's why you can't say how many islands there are
in the UK or how many there are in Canada
or even which country has the most islands
because different people count them in different ways.
- You also couldn't say the circumference of the rock
to give you a definition of whether it's a rock
or an island because you know this,
if you measure the circumference or the length of a coastline,
it depends on how big your measuring stick is,
it's to the answer that you get.
- Go on.
- Okay, you're close.
- You're about to get masked.
- Buckle up.
- Okay, so if you just have a map,
let's say of the British coastline
and you get like a 30 centimeter ruler
and you go right, how long's the coastline,
da, da, da, da, da, like, you know, whatever.
But then if you got a more accurate measuring stick, right,
so one that you were measuring to the millimeter,
you could kind of get in there
in the nooks and crannies a little bit more
and go all around them, right?
And actually you will get longer and longer
and longer each time
because every time you add in a little crevice,
a little nook and cranny,
you're kind of adding length to it.
So in the limit of looking at an infinitely detailed ruler
and the infinitesimally small, like nooks and crannies,
you have an infinite coastline.
- Wow, that's so cool, that's so interesting.
- Can I tell you a story about my favorite island
in the world? - Yes.
- Okay, so there's a little place in France,
this is not my favorite island in the world.
There's a little lake and it's got a little island in it, right?
So you cross every little bridge and then you get it.
And then when you're on the island,
it's got a pond in the island, right?
Oh, maybe sort of like a small lake,
pond to lake, how do you know?
- What really is a rock pond?
- Anyway, in the middle of the pond,
there's a little island, right?
So you've got an island in a lake and on that island,
there is a lake which also has an island in it.
So essentially recursive islands.
Now, there are a few of these places around the world,
but the best one of all is called Vulcan Point
and it's in the Philippines.
And it's a tiny little island that is inside a lake, right?
- Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
- It's a very, very small little island like a little rock.
And that lake is inside a volcano,
which is itself surrounded by water,
which is on an island, right, in a lake.
And it's in the Philippines,
which is in itself an island.
- Wow.
- Now, the thing is about Vulcan Point,
is that unfortunately the volcano exploded
and the Vulcan Point was destroyed.
But there is nonetheless photographic evidence
of the point where there was this level
of recursive islands.
- And do you know what?
I think you could put a sheep on it.
- Really?
- Yeah, it had a great big spike in the middle.
- Can keep a lamb kebab on it.
(laughing)
- Wow. - That's so cool.
- That's extraordinary. - That's so cool.
I love that.
- There's a really cool island on Japan,
which is called Gunkanjima Island.
And what's amazing about this is it was once
the most densely populated place on our planet.
It was, it's quite small.
- Does that mean there's a lot of people
or is it very, very small?
- A lot of people for a very small island.
It's a mixture of the two.
So this is the 1900s.
And this island, there was Mitsubishi.
They looked at it and thought there would be
a lot of rich submarine coal deposit underneath.
So what they did was they built these buildings
on top of the rock.
They fitted 6,000 people.
Like there's nothing else you could do,
but just be in these apartments
and then drill downwards to get it.
And they were right, there was stuff down there.
You'll recognize it by the way, possibly,
if you like popular movies.
It's in James Bond's Skyfall.
It's where Bond goes to this weird island
where it's completely abandoned.
And so people go there now to-
- It means Javier Bardem.
- Yes, exactly.
- It's all, yeah, yeah.
- Why was it abandoned?
- Either they mined enough of it or-
- No, I don't think it was that.
I think that Japan switched to petrol, tragically.
- Right.
(all laughing)
- Give it away.
Sorry, for that, Hannah,
I've got substantial interest in coal.
And-
(all laughing)
- We really are finding out.
- Not about you.
(all laughing)
- Wait 'til you hear the gun to electric.
- Oh, no.
Anyway, I don't know.
Japan just had a big switchover, like, yeah, yeah.
- The most populated now is Mong Kok, isn't it, in Hong Kong?
Just what we were talking about before, yeah, I think so.
- That was always intensely popular in Hong Kong.
- I think this island was 216,000 people per square mile,
which is because it was a fraction of a square mile.
- Feels like a lot, yeah.
- Give us a comparison, though.
What is it like in central London?
- I know that the least densely populated countries
are like Mongolia, which have about four people,
I think, per square mile.
- And this was how many?
- 216,000.
(laughing)
- But it's-
- Quite a lot more.
- Yeah, quite a lot more, yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I went to an island in Japan that has all the rabbits on,
and it's just like, you walk,
and there's just rabbits everywhere,
and you walk down, and they follow you.
- Are these naturally occurring rabbits,
or have they been placed there
for the interest of tourists?
- The story goes that there was a chemical weapons factory,
and they were used as experiments,
and they were let go, and then they proliferated.
But-
- Bread like rabbits.
- Well, yeah, exactly, but-
- I can see why they went with the lizard
for the Godzilla origin story.
(laughing)
- But what we think actually happened
is there are a lot of school kids nearby,
and they put some rabbits on there,
and then the rabbits did what rabbits do,
and became more and more and more rabbits.
And now, because it's known as Rabbit Island,
kids will just come and put their rabbit on there,
because it's where rabbits live,
and it's almost advertised as this wonderful place
where rabbits roam free.
- Sort of like your dog's gone to the farm.
It's like we're just putting your rabbit on Rabbit Island.
- Yeah, a little bit like that.
- Are they fed?
- By tourists, and that's the problem really,
because the tourist season is quite seasonal,
and so for some of the year,
they don't really get fed at all.
- Oh, no, okay.
- Yeah, and it's-
- Do you think that'll be a natural population control there,
wouldn't you?
- I think it is, but the population is quite high still.
And you walk around, and there's a few rabbits there,
and they're chasing after you,
'cause they know the tourists feed them,
and then you walk, and then you turn around,
and there's a few more,
and then you walk a bit further, and there's like 20.
It's just scary.
It's like-
- It's like the birds, but rabbit.
- Yeah.
- Cue animals are fine,
but when they accumulate, that turns to,
there's a number where it gets scary, isn't it,
when you turn around and there's 40 rabbits.
- For me, it's like, if there's only two,
and then you turn around and there's like six,
I think that's scary.
- Oh, yeah.
- Have you ever heard of the work of Greg Gage?
- Greg Gage, no.
- So this is a guy, he has this amazing stuff.
He can put a device on your arm
that sends little electric sensors
and moves your hands for you, right?
So he can sort of stand there with this thing on your arm,
and with his iPad, he can like, move your arm.
- Oh, wow.
- Oh, that's cool.
- He created this thing,
which actually school kids around the world can do,
where you can operate on a little cockroach
and insert a little wire into their heads, right,
and then essentially control them
using a PlayStation controller.
- Oh, my God.
- Right, it's absolutely wild.
Anyway, the thing is, is that, you know,
you've got this remote-controlled cockroach.
I always thought that he was missing a massive trick, though,
because what he should do is get sort of gloves,
which can tell where his hands are.
There's, you know, those kind of gloves
that are connected to it.
And then have an entire army of cockroaches behind him,
right, like a rabbit,
and then summon them by like lifting his arms up.
- Yeah, like a Marvel superhero for cockroaches.
- Wow.
- Maybe next, he can do rabbits.
- Yeah, I'm up for it.
The rabbits, I don't think, like me,
'cause I accidentally kicked one.
'Cause they were kind of, they just ran around.
- Accidentally, here he is.
- Getting his defense in first.
- They just run around your feet the whole time.
- Oh, sure, sure.
- Yeah, yeah. - Wow.
- That'd be a great shot.
- And yet, you converted it through a rugby post
that was nearby, and that's what's going on.
(all laughing)
So, I was just looking up things
that are going on in Japan at the moment.
- Oh, yeah.
- And have you heard of the Sushi Terror?
- No, no.
- Yeah, Japan is in the grip of it.
Right now, as we're recording this,
there's a huge problem,
because there's a craze that's developed.
It's an online craze, and it's spread to offline.
- You know the conveyor belt sushi restaurants?
- Yeah.
- People have started mucking around
with the stuff on the belts.
- Not in Japan.
- Touching the things.
- What?
- Licking bottles of soy sauce.
- No. - It's very bad.
I'm filming themselves as they do it,
and this is obviously really bad, you know.
Can you just have a little quiz for you guys?
- Oh, cool, great.
- When did the first conveyor belt sushi restaurant open?
What year?
- 1990, in New York.
- Very nice.
Oh, at the location, very nice.
- Oh, wow, okay, okay.
- Wrong, though.
- Look at his face. - I'm not saying
until we've got all-- - Look at his face.
- Oh, please, I'm very good at playing.
- The first escalator came in Harrods, in the UK,
around 1920s or something like that.
- It's not really playing the game
to use previous knowledge, but okay, I like it, yes.
- So, I'm gonna say, it was in Harrods.
They decided to open one.
They took that technology, and just put little sushi on it.
- Okay, and a year?
- Probably 1927, I should think.
- Right, Dan?
- Oh, there's not much nowhere for me to go.
It's not happened yet.
- Brilliant.
(all laughing)
- 2029. - 2029.
- Any day now.
- Yeah, it's all an illusion, we've been had.
- Well, okay, it was interesting to me.
James is lobal, that's so much.
- Oh, I'm sorry.
- No, it's quite all right, but it's 1958.
- Okay. - I am surprised by that.
- That is quite a long time ago.
It predates Cliff Richard's first album by a year.
- And that is how we judge everything.
It was Hannah, you haven't been on the show before,
but that's all about it. - That's a magic shot, okay.
- That is a long-- - Wow.
- I'm surprised. - Yeah.
- I was gonna say, I don't know if we've ever mentioned it.
I don't think we have the first ever English teacher
who was of a foreign country teaching English
in the country was a guy called Ronald McDonald.
He was the first person to teach in Japan,
which would be a great, nice coincidence
if Ronald McDonald, who is a character in McDonald's
in Japan, was called Ronald McDonald, but he's not.
- What? - It's called Donald McDonald.
- What, who? - What?
- Yeah. - Is it 'cause the letter R
is difficult to say? - Exactly.
And it's interesting looking at it online
when people have written about it.
There's been tweets about it.
And if you go to the replies,
there's a lot of Japanese people who are like,
you know, in their 30s, going, "He's called Ronald?"
Like, so it's like, it's a genuinely amazing thing,
but over there, he's Donald.
- Did you say you were in Japan recently?
- I was in Japan, yeah, filming.
- Well, where do you-- - I was in Tokyo,
but the good bit-- - Yeah.
- I got to go inside the exclusion zone in Fukushima,
which was-- - Wow.
- Wild.
The whole place is extraordinary.
There are these buildings, there's one sort of town hall
that we went to, and the doors are locked,
but inside, you can just see everybody's slippers,
and there was like a kid's toy on the floor,
and then, you know, like, beer bottles, right?
They'd had a party or something the night before,
and there's like a crate with sort of the empties
that they hadn't got rid of. - Wow, yeah.
- And just like, everybody left in such a rush
'cause of the tsunami.
But one of the reasons why we were going there,
we were looking at wildlife and how wildlife has changed,
and there were reports before we got there
that there were radioactive bears inside the exclusion zone,
which I was obviously very excited about.
- Yeah.
- So we got there, we started, right,
we're literally on a bear hunt.
(all laughing)
- And we asked good.
- Yeah, so many of the radiation, but you know, whatever.
Anyway, we went to talk to a sexist and we're like,
"Okay, tell us about these bears."
And, you know, we couldn't find any bears.
So, "Okay, so how much have you seen these bears?"
And then it transpired that actually,
the bear researcher themselves had only seen one bear once.
- Right, okay.
Actually, there wasn't radioactive bears at all.
It was radioactive bear, which may or may not be there.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
- I'd love to find that bear.
That sounds amazing.
The radioactive bear.
- I'm not as strongly suspected as a boar,
just, you know, on a spiny angle.
- Just a spiny angle.
- Oh, yeah.
(all laughing)
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for fact number three,
and that is James.
- Okay, my fact this week is that if you grew up in a city,
then you have a worse sense of direction
than someone born in the countryside.
Though it doesn't seem to work if you're from Hungary.
- Hmm.
- Okay, again, we're gonna need more data.
- So this is a study published last year in Nature,
and it assessed the navigational skills
of 400,000 people across 38 countries.
And what they did was they asked people
to memorize a map in a video game.
And then once they memorized it,
they got them to get their characters to go through this map.
And they worked out how good everyone wasn't navigating.
And they found that it was very clear
that people who grew up in cities
tended to have a worse sense of direction.
People who were in the countryside had a better,
and people in the suburbs were always in between the two.
So it was a real good correlation.
And they said it was strong in places
like Argentina, the UK, and the US.
But there were countries like Hungary, for example,
this is a quote, where there was no real difference,
but on average, the trend held.
- So is that because Hungary has very simple cities
or complicated countryside?
- I've been to Hungary, and for instance, in Budapest,
I would say it's not that different to London,
'cause it's an old, very old city that's built up.
- It's Higley-de-Pigley-D.
- Yeah, not like New York, which is in a grid.
- And that's why they said people with a worse sense
of direction were people who grew up in grid cities.
- They tend to be the worst.
- Yeah, I mean, well, that makes sense, right?
- And they kind of speculate slightly
that you don't have as much signpost telling you
which way to go and that kind of stuff.
- It's pretty amazing.
So the game that was created for them to do this
is called, whoops, sorry.
- Is it Quest?
- It is, it's Sea Hero Quest.
- Okay, I need to tell you about, go on, keep going.
- Oh, do you know it?
- Yes, keep going.
- So this game, as of April 22nd, 2022,
has been now played by over 4.3 million players,
not necessarily all for this exact thing
that you're talking about, James.
It's just an incredible way of gathering data.
- Is this a particular thing that's used in science too?
- Yeah, it's like this amazing kind of game
that is fun to play,
but then you're also collecting data from it.
But the reason why I love it so much is that,
okay, so there are particular cells in your brain
that help you with navigation,
and they found these in mice and rats.
So some of them are called play cells,
and essentially what happens, right?
Let's say you put a rat in a rectangular room, okay?
You can put a kind of cute little hat on the rat
that will measure what's going on in the brain,
and you can work out when particular neurons are firing.
And it turns out that in, let's say,
the northeast corner of the room,
if there's one neuron that fires in this rat's brain
while it's in that location,
it will not fire anywhere else.
It's like a specific neuron that is like,
this is the northeast corner, a play cell.
And actually what you can do is you can elongate
the zone in which that neuron fires
by putting a rat into an identical room
that is just stretched out longer.
So it's like the northeast corner becomes bigger,
and so where this neuron fires also becomes bigger.
Anyway, the thing is, is that they have to do this
while the rats are going around in little rooms,
but it's quite hard to hook up this rat to the hat
that's measuring what's going on in their brain.
- You're not gonna put a spike in it like the cockroach.
Are you?
'Cause I was a bit squeamish about that, and I was like...
- It's only tiny, the cockroach is fine.
The cockroach is fine.
- Okay, okay.
- No, so what they do is they put the little hat on the rat,
and then they put the rat on a ball,
and then the rat can run around,
and the ball moves underneath them
as though they're running freely,
and then they put it in front of a computer
and get it to play Quest.
- No.
- Yeah.
- Wow.
- Yeah, so the rat's like running around
playing this computer game.
- Oh my God.
- It's almost like VR for the rat, right?
- Totally.
- It thinks that it's in this well that I get,
I don't know.
- Totally.
- Probably doesn't even know it's a rat,
but it's like, you know, it's like,
it imagines that it's actually going round, right?
- Yeah, and it's the screen,
it's like a little rat-sized IMAX.
- Amazing.
- That's amazing.
- Well, one more thing about this study,
and why it might be important,
is because poor navigation skills
are sometimes used to help identify dementia in people,
and so you need to know what your base level
of navigation skills would be for a normal person.
So if you live in the city or the countryside,
and you have poor navigation skills,
it could be 'cause you have dementia,
but you need to know what your original was.
- See, that's clever.
I read that if you follow Google Maps,
if you follow the blue line,
your sense of direction gets much worse over time.
- Yeah, well, it's like your brain's like a muscle, right?
You've got to practice it.
- So I turned it off yesterday.
I turned off the blue line.
I had to get somewhere,
had to walk for about half an hour across London,
and I turned it off,
and it was only about three corners in the whole journey,
so it was really--
- Well, it's the blue line.
Sorry.
- On Google Maps, you know, there's a blue line,
you put it in directions to somewhere,
it gives you a little blue line.
- Right.
- You follow that line,
and then you get to the place you're going.
- Okay.
I got lost on the way between Holborn and Cronk Garden just now.
I mean, that's what I'm saying, it's like.
(laughing)
- Amazing.
- I've lived here for 20 years.
I used to have an A to Z in my pocket.
I used to be able to like,
"I was fine now, I just can't do it."
You know what, there's a cabbie who I use quite a lot,
and I have a game that I play with him
where I'll be in a part of London,
and I'll just send him a photo of a door,
and it's unreal.
- Sorry, you've got your own personal cabbie?
- No, not my--
(laughing)
- We say chauffeur, normally.
- You'll never have guessed who I had in this card.
It was you, yeah, it was you.
- No, he's not my personal cabbie.
He's like, he's a tame cabbie.
(laughing)
- I think that's still very impressive.
Like, I've never--
- Yeah?
- Like, first you give up pop noodles,
and then this is the next step.
- Has this cabbie feels got a spike in his head,
and you just raise your hand, and he arrives.
(laughing)
- Wow.
- Sorry, you send him photos, and he just says,
"That's where you are."
- Yeah, he knows.
- That's cool.
- He knows the door. - That is very cool.
- Do you want to try it now?
Should I take a first look at the window?
- Yeah.
- Don't put a street sign on.
- That's great, and it's just hanging out the window
of our office right now.
(laughing)
- We could even say where we are,
'cause this is the last time we're ever in this office.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so, yeah.
So, let's see if he comes back with this,
but we're on Maiden Lane.
Let's see if he gets Maiden Lane.
- So exciting.
- It's extraordinary.
- I used to live on a street where,
which was in the cabbie's knowledge exam.
- Oh, yeah.
- And that was really useful,
because you didn't have to give them anything.
You'd just say you're on that street,
and they'd be like, "Oh, yeah, we know what that is."
- I did too, so I lived on Sandwich Street.
- All right.
- And they always do bacon lane to Sandwich Street.
(laughing)
- Lovely. - Great.
- What was your one?
- It was Digby Crescent,
but I don't know where they would have gone to.
- Everard, Digby.
- Everard Road to Digby Crescent, yeah.
Oh, he's typing.
- Oh!
- Okay, hold on, hold on.
- That's quick.
- Okay, he's too quick.
I'm gonna have to edit in a space.
- Exactly. - Yeah.
- He says, "Is it an official test?"
I think yes.
- Yes. - Yes.
- We revoke your license, if you.
(laughing)
- Well, let's do a bit of talking
and then see if he gets to give it some space.
Just very quickly,
you're mentioning you got lost
from Holborn to Covent Garden.
So I've discovered and made contact
with a guy called Tristan Goole,
who's an amazing guy.
He writes incredible books
about how you can anywhere in London
orientate yourself by various things.
- Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- If you're in the morning,
go against the flow of people walking towards you
because predominantly that group
will be coming from a tube station.
And if you need to find a tube station
at the end of the day.
- Not if you live in a commuter town.
They're all going to the tube station.
- Oh, sorry, this is London, central London.
He's talking about it. - But you've woken up
and the kidnappers told you you're in central London
but I'm not going to tell you where.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And you said which zone is like one or two.
(laughing)
- And at no point to say just ask somebody where you are.
- Well, his idea is that you shouldn't ask
someone where you are.
You should make the challenge
of working out your navigation better.
If you see a tree in London,
look if it has a tilt on it.
Because if it has a tilt,
that will be pointing to the south.
- I always think in London go downhill,
you'll get to the river eventually.
- Yeah, right, okay.
- I don't know if that's true.
- It feels like it.
- I mean, they're our local maxima though.
(all laughing)
- I was reading a book called
The Lost Art of Finding Our Way,
which is by an author called John Huff.
And he was talking about urban myths of navigation.
How, you know, there's one of,
it's not the tilt on the tree,
you know the other one of the tree?
- It's like moss on one side of the tree.
- Moss grows on the north side of a tree
because it's cooler, darker, shadier,
and not on the south.
And it doesn't, it only happens in mid-latitudes
in the northern hemisphere.
So you need to know which hemisphere you're in.
So it's not a perfect test.
- Can you flush a toilet first
and see which way the water is?
- Yeah, I don't know.
There's a toilet next to a tree,
so you do know that here.
But also--
- If you don't know what hemisphere you're in though,
I think you're in good much more trouble.
- You can look at the stars and I'll tell you.
- How long was I blindfolded for?
Was it enough to do a 16-hour flight?
Shall we look at the phone?
- Yes, yeah.
- Let's have a look, let's see.
Okay.
- What's he saying?
- We've got a response.
Okay, we sent this at 1237
and he replied at 1239, maiden name.
- Oh my God.
- I wanna know how he did it though.
- What's in the photo that you can--
- Can I call him and ask him?
- Yeah, go check it.
- Put it on speaker.
- Yeah, well.
It was the mass on the north side.
(laughing)
- How did you do it?
- I knew roughly where you were
because there's a safe door.
- Oh.
- Yes.
- And I'm, there's no traffic in that street.
So I know it's somewhere annoying
like Soho or Cumbergarden.
- Right.
- And then I just used my pills and deductions.
- Wow.
- Hi, so Richard, Dan Shriver here,
no such thing as a fish.
Thanks for being on the show.
What did you, is that genuinely the final guess
was a punt or did you know it?
- I did recognise the street but I did use a stage door
and the fact that I could tell there's no traffic
in that street anymore.
I'm not allowed to drive down it.
So it did look familiar and I kind of worked it out
from back then.
- Amazing.
- All right, cheers, Rich.
I'll talk to you later on.
- Amazing.
- Thanks, Benny.
- Oh, I wish he ended that by going,
oh, gotta go.
Professor Brian Cox has called him.
He's saying a picture for me to analyse.
- That is really cool.
- God, that's good.
- Yeah.
- Wow.
- He's never not got one.
It's one day, one day.
- That's so cool.
- We were talking about Holborn area
and do you remember when they changed the rules
that you were allowed to stand on both sides
of the escalator?
- Yeah, I do.
- Holborn, yes.
- It's a very long escalator.
- Were you angry about it?
- Yeah.
- Why?
- You were incorrect the angle.
- I know, I do know.
- Okay, just warning.
- TFL justification for the trial.
- So just to explain, sorry,
in London when we go down an escalator in the underground,
you have to stand on the right hand side
and you're allowed to walk along the left hand side.
But they said from now on,
everyone's standing on both sides.
- Yeah, right.
My problem with it is,
I know what you're gonna say, Hannah,
you're gonna say it's mathematically more efficient.
You will get more people on and through the escalator
if everyone's just standing.
- I will say that.
- Okay, my perspective is, as a commuter,
it's less pleasant.
It's okay standing and there are people moving past you.
If you're standing with people in front behind
and next to you, it's a bit of a squash.
And there's this awkward thing
where you might have to make conversation with someone
or you'll make eye contact or they'll start a fight
or they'll say, what are you doing?
- Start a fight?
(laughing)
- Just, it's too tight.
- Look, I would accept that as a response.
And I would accept that you would prefer
to have a slower journey time to avoid that.
But for the fact that you're just about to slam yourself
into a tube carriage
with 50,000 other people into their armpits.
- Yeah.
- You know, it's definitely no more Sardini
than when you get on the tube.
- It feels impersonal and cold.
I love the freedom of just running up
those escalator steps and, you know,
it's just, you know, you feel like you're really
getting somewhere.
Like, oh, these slow coaches are standing on the right.
- You're just putting, yeah.
- It jumps on the right.
Yeah, it jumps on the right.
The legend's on the left is what I would have to find.
(laughing)
- Do you know?
Well, basically a lot of people felt the same way as you,
Andy, but like Hannah says, it was successful
and way more people could get down the escalator.
- People don't like math, James.
People don't like math.
- Forget about the maths.
Just think about the gaps.
If you were like looking down on it,
say you were like, you know, in the control room.
Looking down on the escalator.
If people are walking down, there's much bigger gaps,
which basically means you've got
all of that wasted space, right?
So you get a much higher flux.
- It's not wasted space, it's the hero's aura.
- It's, you're spotting who's a drone.
Who's willing to do what the system tells them.
Please stand on the escalator.
- The sheeples.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- I like standing in the fast lane
when there's no one there.
(laughing)
- But only when there's no one there.
- Only when there's no one there.
Yeah, and that's because you like to play with norms.
You subvert, you twist.
- Exactly.
- You kick rabbits when--
- I tell you--
(laughing)
- Is that still in place, that law in Holburne?
- Which one?
- The Tube Law.
- No, no, it was a trial.
- The double work thing and it didn't really take off.
Thanks to my letter writing campaign.
- Yeah, I was gonna say, the QI offices,
we are moving and we're moving to Holburne
and it's just the sadistic bit of me
would love to know that that's now your Tube station.
- I sabotaged it by leaving small pieces of sushi
which I had licked on every other thing.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show
and that is my fact.
My fact this week is that an inventor called Yifei Chen
has designed a gun which collects tears from your face
so you can shoot them back at the person who made you cry.
- Tears, even if you're really upset,
it's not a super soka, is it?
- No, it's not, but have you seen it?
Have you seen the video of it?
- No, have I seen it?
- It shoots out with more force than it ought.
- She's built it, hasn't she?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Like to the point where it would hurt.
- We got a back track on that.
It's got similar force to a super soka
because what it does is it collects the tears
but then there's a sort of canister that freezes it
so it kind of turns.
- What?
- But what does it do, Andy?
'Cause it doesn't, it's still liquid.
It's not ice particles.
So it's not like, it's not tear bullets.
It's still--
- Is it tear gas?
(laughs)
- It's kind of what it is, weirdly.
- Right, yeah.
- But then at the time it takes to freeze,
are you still gonna be upset at the person who made you cry?
- No, exactly.
So it's not an immediate,
I wouldn't bring it to an actual gun fight.
- Is it like, your tears are best served cold, right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
- And often, you know, one finds that you're actually
the one who's made yourself cry.
(laughs)
You know, you have control over what you're crying
in this situation.
- Andy goes home, has a little cry
and then fires about himself.
(laughs)
This is all your fault.
- That's interesting that you think you have control over
whether you cry in a situation.
- Yeah, I'm now thinking about my tear ducts so much.
- You look like you're crying.
- I know.
- I definitely do not have control over crying.
- Very involuntary tears.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I cry all the time, I try not to.
Yeah, because I'm often, I'll watch like a really,
like a really heartfelt, like Oprah Winfrey,
the YouTube clip on the Tube or on the train.
(laughs)
And it gets me every time.
And it's embarrassing 'cause you have people next to you,
right?
- So hang on, is that why you don't want this escalator thing?
So then you can have that moment of privacy.
- It's really, yeah.
The length of the Holborn escalator is about
a one classic clip of Oprah, length of time.
- So random.
- Do you watch that Tom Cruise jumping up and down
on her sofa?
- No, it's not emotional, I like the emotional stuff, yeah.
- Do you like Dr. Phil?
- No, I don't watch Dr. Phil.
I like military homecoming videos
or pregnancy announcement videos.
- I quite like homecoming, yeah.
The other one I really like,
when I just want a really good cry is a dog rescue.
- Oh, nice.
- Yeah, 'cause sometimes you get the dogs
and they're in such a little state.
- Oh, I haven't done that yet.
- And you know, like, they'll often have like,
you know, loads of light and loads of like ticks
and things and horrible, you know, like scaly skin.
And then what's really nice is when they patch them all up
and then they get ready to be rescued
by, you know, go to an adoptive home.
They're all fluffy again.
- Oh my God.
Well, you need to-
- You do this to yourself.
- I do.
It's very therapeutic.
- This is fucking weird.
There's a Venn diagram that you,
I'd love to introduce you to,
which is military homecoming videos,
but where they come home to the dog
and the dog reacts, woof.
That's a new level of emotion.
- Whoa, there.
And you do that on the tube.
- Yeah.
- You just go on the tube and you just want to cry
when you're on the tube.
- Well, I just suddenly have a hankering to-
- It's the algorithm, you know?
I'll be watching something,
but I've watched so much of it.
I'll, you know, it'd be like a comedy clip
of someone I want to watch in an underneath.
It's like, Oprah gives $16,000 to a desperate mum
who lost her house in a hurricane.
- Is this actually just to stop people
sitting next to you on the tube?
(laughing)
Andy, what do you watch to make you cry on the tube?
- I don't think I consciously watch things
that will make me cry.
I've seen, sometimes you'll see a clip
that's doing the rounds online
and you find it moving.
- I just think about my career.
(laughing)
I would say, for me, the only thing really
that makes me a bit like that is sporting events
when people, you know-
- Like a classic turnaround?
Like a last minute Hail Mary?
- Yeah, someone who's like reached the life's ambition.
- Yeah.
- The Olympics.
- Oh man, cry fest.
- A little bit.
- I'll tell you what you'll love then.
It's called the knock.
When the NFL players are told they've made it
into the Hall of Fame and someone goes around
knocking on the door.
Oh, the emotion in that.
- I think-
- Especially when there's a dog involved.
(laughing)
The puppy bowl.
- The Crufts in the Hall of Fame.
(laughing)
- Anyway, that's a-
- Gosh, we've learned a lot.
(laughing)
- So.
- Oh, damn.
- Yifei Chen.
So she's actually, we say inventor.
She's actually a designer and she was at a design school
and this was the thing where she grew up in Taiwan
and you're trying not to return anger towards authority,
your school teachers or your parents or so on.
I think that's just part of the culture a bit so much there.
Less so when she went overseas and she was studying
in the Netherlands and she noticed
that she was being told off
and she watched someone step up for her
but she realized she couldn't do it for herself.
So she had a cry and she thought, I felt really weak.
So I want to use my weakness and turn it into power.
What if I invented a gun?
(laughing)
- Amazing.
- What if I did the most punishing
and literal interpretation?
(laughing)
It's very cool.
It's an amazing looking invention.
- It's beautiful, yeah.
- It has these tear collecting half moons under the eyes,
and a little pipe that then leads down
into the cartridge or chamber or whatever you think.
- Yeah, and she did it as part of her course.
She designed the gun.
So on her graduation, she actually went up
and she fired the gun at the head of the department,
Shan Boli.
- I know what you're thinking.
Did I cry six tears or only five?
(laughing)
Do you feel weepy?
Tell you about another inventor invention or something.
- Please, please.
- Have you guys heard of the knee defender?
- No.
- I think we're about to.
- Yeah, if you're on a plane.
- Oh no, I know.
- You fit this to the seat in front of you,
to the back of the seat in front of you,
and it means the person in front of you
can't recline their seat.
- Oh, wow.
- And then they're banned on a lot of airlines.
- There they are.
- They're a controversial contraband thing.
And the inventor is six foot three.
(laughing)
He says that it was more to start a conversation.
- I bet it does.
(laughing)
- So it's, basically it comes with a little card
for your fellow passenger if you get one of these.
And it reads, "I realized that this may be an inconvenience.
"If so, I hope you will complain to the airline.
"Maybe working together, we can convince the airline
"to provide enough space between rows
"so people can recline their seats
"without banging into other passengers."
- What a dick.
- Yeah.
- And he is, you have got some of these, haven't you?
- I'm glad to see you.
- I mean, it's like I fundamentally agree
that you, that the airlines do put them too close together
and it means that actually you can't,
you have to, one person has to sacrifice their comfort
and that seems unfair.
But him being like, one of us has to sacrifice their comfort.
And this time it's not gonna be me.
- Yeah.
- And in fact, on no occasion it's gonna be me.
- No.
- Well, yeah.
- What he needs to do is fly business like I do.
And you manage to do that by eating nothing but pot noodles
and saving your money.
- If you fly first class like I do,
then you all recline and you know.
- It doesn't look so bad that sometimes I get cabs now,
does it?
(all laughing)
- I actually have my own airline pilot.
- Take a photo of some sky.
(all laughing)
- New Jersey, isn't it?
Lovely.
- We got an email in the fish inbox about,
and this is about innovation rather than about
inventions exactly, but it's just so interesting.
'Cause it was a guy called Mark Emmerton who sent in a fact
about something, a nuclear, a nuclear test.
Okay.
And he said, "I have a fact from my late great uncle
who actually worked on the nuclear test program,
the British nuclear test program in the '50s."
And he says, "This is probably classified for all I know,
but fuck it."
(all laughing)
- So.
- And a guy.
- Yeah.
Right.
The UK and US used to share test sites in the Pacific,
but each would bring their own instruments
to measure the power of nuclear tests on the ground.
The US had very sensitive state-of-the-art pressure
transducers, but they kept getting broken
or having their readings wiped by shockwaves and radiation.
Okay.
The UK, with a much smaller budget,
realized that you could measure the pressure
of a nuclear blast just by getting a squeezy tube
of toothpaste.
(all laughing)
Taking the cap off and then placing a ruler next to it,
the pressure of the blast would squirt out toothpaste
proportionally to the blast strength,
and there were no electronics to go wrong.
They worked.
- That's genius.
- Oh, that's amazing.
I mean, there is a story about this, about Fermi.
Do you know this story?
So Fermi, this amazing, amazing physicist,
and he had.
- Enrico.
He had a reputation for being able to do
calculations in his head.
And during the first test, he decided he wanted
to try and work out how strong the blast was.
And so he stood in the observation tower,
which I think was some distance away from the block.
I mean, you would assume.
(all laughing)
And he tore up a tiny bit of paper,
sheet of paper into tiny little bits,
and he held it in his hand.
And then as the blast exploded, he opened his hand
and then paced out how far they'd been blown
across the room, and then got within, I think,
a factor of two of the equivalent in dynamite.
So I think, I mean, it's totally legitimate
that you can do this.
You don't get perfectly accurate results, weirdly enough.
But yeah, you can get really close.
- That's really cool.
- I was just on classified stuff.
I read the other day about a girl in America
who went to her school's show-and-tell
with a load of classified US government documents.
(all laughing)
- From like her dad and mom.
- No, it was even worse than that.
So there'd been, someone from the government
had been at something and then had lost their briefcase,
so I just left it there.
And their dad, this girl's dad had found it
and sort of just picked it up and looked through it
and it all said classified and stuff.
And then he just took it home
and then they kept it in the attic
and never did anything with it.
And then like five or six years later,
she was like, "I need something for show-and-tell."
Went up and then, "Oh, I'll take this."
And then took it down and it was like all stuff
about Iran and Libya and stuff like that.
- Was she detained?
- Well, yeah, she's--
- She was in Guantanamo.
(all laughing)
- The teacher got in touch with the CIA
and is that the right person or the FBI?
- Yeah, it would be the CIA.
- Yeah, yeah.
And said, "We have this."
And they came and sent some people in dark glasses
to retrieve it.
- Wow, they were quietly waiting at the back of the show
and tell our blooming tillie,
talked about a conch that she's found, you know.
(all laughing)
- And I think probably the person who lost it
might have got killed or killed.
- It was all a happy ending and that's amazing, that's so cool.
- Here's another new invention.
This is from, I think, 2022,
which I mentioned it to my wife
and she's looking into getting one.
It's a motion pillow three.
(all laughing)
- Is it a mega hanky?
- It's a YouTube Prime account.
I can get rid of all those nasty ads getting in the way.
- It's a what, sorry?
- Motion pillow three, it's called.
- It's a pillow, right?
- And you have a snorer down there.
Is that where we're going?
- Ooh, I thought of it.
- Does it smother you?
(all laughing)
- Yeah, my wife is very keen on getting one.
- It's a weighted blanket for the face.
It's how it's sold, yeah.
No, is it a pillow that moves under you,
it undulates under you to keep you asleep?
- No.
- Does it massage you?
- No, that'd be nice.
- Does it do what Andy said but stop you from snoring?
- Exactly, I can't believe that you didn't build
on the snoring thing.
What it is is when you're laying down,
if you're snoring, there are four airbags inside
and it's AI kind of generated so it inflates
to move your head around until the position
where the airwaves are opened up properly
and you stop snoring and it means
that you just reduce snoring.
- No way.
- Yeah, this is a motion pillow three.
- You're gonna say you're not waking up
when someone is, your pillow is slowly grinding
your head in the ground.
(all laughing)
- Does it make a noise?
Is there a, is there a-
- When your neck snaps it does.
(all laughing)
- It's a way to assassinate some of us then.
- Incredible.
- Is that why motion pillow one and two
didn't make it to one?
(all laughing)
- Can I tell you about the Corby trouser press?
- Yeah.
- Just while we're on game-changing inventions
of the 20th century.
- Thanks.
- Yeah, yeah.
- I just, we're losing a lot of inventors now
who invented really big things.
And I'm not saying the Corby.
(all laughing)
But like the inventor of the kettle off switch,
for example, is still alive.
- Oh yeah, it's still going.
- He's a professor of invention
in Oxford or something like that.
- It's called John Taylor.
This is a slight tangent or a tangent to myself,
but it's, do you know how the kettle off switch works?
- Is it a bimetallic strip?
- Yeah.
I just love bimetallic strips.
- At least the-
- What is it?
- Well that's interesting.
I haven't thought about this before.
I do remember trying to buy a kettle
which didn't have one and it was really hard.
- Really?
Why were you trying to-
- I don't remember.
But I think it was something to do with stamps
and legal activity that the post office
can't find out about.
- What?
(all laughing)
- So bimetallic strip is as it sounds,
it's a strip of two different metals
all the way along, right?
And they expand and contract at different temperatures
because of the chemical composition.
So as it gets hot water on it, the strip,
it will bend because one side
is expanding more than the other.
And you can develop those and it snaps the kettle off
at a certain temperature.
It's a bimetallic strip.
- I think that I love bimetallic strips
is the most Andy sentence I've ever heard you say.
(all laughing)
- Well, we had one in the house when I was growing up
and it was a very cool scientific experiment to do.
- What a kettle.
(all laughing)
- That's all those pot noodles you're gonna have in it.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, that's it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we've said
over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland, James.
- @JamesHarken.
- Andy.
- @AndrewHunterM.
- And Hannah.
- @Fryarsquad.
- Yeah, nice.
Or you can go to our group account,
which is @NoSuchThing or our website.
NoSuchThingAsAfish.com.
Check it out.
All of our previous episodes are up there
as well as merchandise.
Do have a look.
But most importantly, make sure to watch Hannah's latest show.
It's called "The Future with Hannah Fry."
It's on Bloomberg or you can find it on YouTube.
It's, the whole series is up now, right?
You can take it all in one go.
If you finish that and you're on YouTube,
why not check out some Oprah clips?
There's really good ones to watch.
Anyway, that's it.
And that's it from us, from this office.
This is where QI's office was
for the last nine years of our existence.
Fish started here nine years ago.
This is the last ever episode we're doing in our HQ.
So we'll be from somewhere new next week.
So thank you for being our final guest ever, Hannah.
- Thank you.
- In our HQ.
And yeah, we will be back again next week
in another building with another episode.
We'll see you then.
Goodbye.
(upbeat music)
[MUSIC PLAYING]